https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/293405

It has been nearly three years since the release of the Dark/Light Modern themes, and the developer tools landscape has evolved significantly. With the rise of AI adoption and a rapidly changing ecosystem, it is the perfect time to refresh the UI—helping VS Code stand out while delivering an improved developer experience.

The Goal: Focus

The core philosophy behind these new themes is simple: Focus.
We believe a cleaner environment helps developers maintain their flow state for longer. To achieve this, we are experimenting with several key design pillars:

Reduced Palette: Minimizing visual noise by stripping away unnecessary colors.

Strategic Accents: Using accent colors sparingly to highlight important actions only when relevant.

Layered UI: distinct visual separation between three key areas:

Workbench (Editor area)
Tools (Chat, Terminal, Explorer)
Actions (Quick Pick, Notifications, Menus)
Depth & Lightness: Utilizing transparency, blur, and shadows to maintain visual context without clutter.

Try it Out

We have a first WIP iteration of these themes - VS Code Dark and VS Code Light - available starting in v1.109, and will be continually updating them in Insiders. We welcome your feedback!

Please open issues for bugs or suggestions and attach the 2026-themes label.


Comment 1

i am still unable to adjust to the new colors from the dark theme, they seem off to me.
every time i look at the red-ish colored text my brain looks if there are errors
the ghost-ish colored variables/text often give vibe as unused variables
still not able to get comfortable with the green colored keys in the key value pairs (JSON for instance)

the only thing i liked about the new theme color is the comments now appearing as grayed out, thats the only improvement i could feel.

i initially wanted to use this theme for the Glass component feel, apparently that feature is not happening :|

Comment 2
the lack of semantic tokens for go in this theme is bad. i had to turn it off to get the keywords to be red .. if it is on, it's two different shades of purple and clashes with the functions/method colors which are purple.

"gopls": {
"ui.semanticTokens": false,
},

I don't really mind the red for keywords and i get it's trying to be like the github theme (which i do like).. but it feels rushed for some languages, and just doesnt look good at all..

plus, the removal of some colors is not great, especially when those keywords do indeed mean something. switched back to dark modern (or even better, Pitch Black)

